# My-First-App


Hi fellow developers! I’m Brian from Malaysia who just picked up programming recently due to an injury that occurred to me in the year 2020 made me realize it’s never too late to pursue my childhood dream of being a software engineer. Here I am taking the path of self-taught hopefully to be able to land myself a job as a mobile software developer one day.

First of all, welcome to my GitHub. What you’re looking at is my first Android app which I struggle very much to get to this point (Google and stackoverflow page has been my go to web for my problems). I know there are probably better ways of writing this app and I hope to make improvements in the future. The app was fully coded using Android Studio in Java which is my first programming language that I progress further, therefore have better understanding than some other languages that I actually first started with. I've added as much comment on the code to make future reference easier and also some code that I originally found (especially the translation class) that are deprecated are included as well with certain code which can be written using an alternative were included in the project code (but commented out). I tried my best to update some of the deprecated codes to the ones still in support. Now that I have a better understanding of how a program works, I hope it will be easier to pick up other languages as well.

In this app, my aim is to aid in goods searching when customers request certain items and the app serves as a database to all the goods available in store. In app databases are handled by Android Room which I modify from a lecture I learn online to fit for my use. Here I made it into three sections, first will be the lube section where you can store all kinds of lubricants and liquid based items under this section. Second section will be dedicated to autoparts (car parts since this is my current work field). These first two sections all contain costing and selling where you can key in when creating or editing the item and the app will calculate the profit for you based on your sell and cost. In the view page, you will see only the sell price in numeric and the cost will be attached on the end of it encoded. You may change your own secret key by swapping those characters to the desired one under “My-First-App/app/src/main/java/com/keane9301/myapp001/Database/Utils/Conversion.java/”. The last section will be the contacts. In contacts you can store your customer’s information such as contact numbers and location (do note that location do have some issues where the app will not update location after it detects your actual location. You will have to back out then click on the location button again to see the update). In order to use the location, you will first have to set up your key for Google Maps to work. You can find instructions under “My-First-App/app/src/debug/res/values/google_maps_api.xml/”. Once it’s set up, you can click on the location button  to locate your current position.

All sections in the app can store ONE photo per item entry if needed since I’m working with my limited knowledge in programming still. You can either take a photo via the camera by clicking the camera button  or select an image from the gallery by clicking on the stacked image button . To remove the image attached, just click on the image itself while in the edit page to remove it or straight away select or capture a new photo and it will automatically replace the existing ones. While in the view page, you can click on the picture to have a larger view and zooming up to 3x is possible.

Searching for items in a sea of data can be tough so I added a search bar up on each section where it will match the keyword of any items available in the database. Each section will have limited keywords that can be used to search for items. In the lube section, only keywords under brand, model and grade will be filtered, part section will have application, category and sub-category while in the customer section will be filtered by name, shop name and address. The good news here is the search key is NOT case sensitive. Key in other keywords will result in the search item not found.

When it comes to location in view mode for lube and part, there is a “Google”  button on the side where you clicked, it will translate the language from english to chinese and a long press will show you from english in malay (I should note that I expect you to save them in english in order for this to work). To go back to english, just tap on the translated text and it will go back to the original. If you wish to change the translate text, you may do so by referring to the "My-First-App/app/src/main/java/com/keane9301/myapp001/TranslateApi.java/'' class to get the code to your language (refer from line 212 onwards). To change to the desired language for lube, go to “My-First-App/app/src/main/java/com/keane9301/myapp001/ui/home/ViewLube.java/'' class on line 409 (for single click) and line 438 (for long press) while for part, go to “My-First-App/app/src/main/java/com/keane9301/myapp001/ui/gallery/ViewPart.java/'' class on line 468 (for single click) and line 497 (for long press). Just swap out the first quotation mark to what language you’re going to save your text in and the second quotation mark to what language you want it to translate to.

In the contact section, when you select a contact for view, you can click on the phone number and it will redirect to your dialer. With this you won't have to type in the number manually into your dialer. A long press on the number will take you to WhatsApp so you don't have to save the number first like you usually need to do. To copy the number, just click on the copy button  on the right of each number row. Same thing as location too. You may click on the latitude and longitude text and it will launch Google Maps on your phone and drop a pin on the destination. If you are using Waze or other mapping service, you may copy the latitude and longitude by clicking on the copy key  on the right side of the location row.

Backing up and restoring is possible but it requires some work since I’m working with an offline system. You may click on the three dots on the top right corner and select either backup or restore then you will be greeted by the page respectively. By clicking backup, you will find the backed up files (total of NINE files) under “storage\Documents\Database Backup\” in your phone’s local storage instead of external memory card. Same goes to restore, all you have to do is make sure all NINE files are available under “storage\Documents\Database Backup\” in your phone’s local storage and click restore to restore it onto your phone. Here is the catch, if the files get leaked (which I hope it doesn’t), and someone else happens to have this app, all they have to do is just put those files in their phone and click restore to have everything.

To edit any selected item under this app, I’ve only implemented fingerprint recognition since most Android phones nowadays come with one. No password login so far. If you have face recognition enabled, you will be able to use it as well, as I’ve tested it on Samsung Galaxy S10+ on Android 11 but only fingerprint works on LG V30 which is running Android 8.

I should mention that the app will run only in portrait mode and no screenshot is permitted. The app by default was set in dark mode only. If you wish like to run in light mode, go to “My-First-App/app/src/main/java/com/keane9301/myapp001/MainActivity.java/”  class and replace line 35 with the following code:
AppCompatDelegate.setDefaultNightMode(AppCompatDelegate.MODE_NIGHT_NO);

I guess that's all the function I've implemented so far. Feel free to drop me an email and I’ll be happy to get back to you as soon as possible. Thank you for your time in reading my long readme and also having a glance at my code. It means a lot to me. Have a beautiful day.








P/s: I forgot to rename these files since I’m too excited when I actually have the app running so these path actually means:
My-First-App/app/src/main/java/com/keane9301/myapp001/ui/gallery/ ⇒ Part
My-First-App/app/src/main/java/com/keane9301/myapp001/ui/home/ ⇒ Lube
My-First-App/app/src/main/java/com/keane9301/myapp001/ui/slideshow/ ⇒Contact



